Trait #	Trait	Priority	Notes	Figures	Generic Notes
1	Front breadth	10	The front of a fiddler crab refers to the extension of the carapace between the base of the eyestalks; front breadth therefore refers to the distance between the base of the eyestalks. Many species have the eyestalks quite close-together (&ldquo;narrow-fronts&rdquo;) while others have them well separated (&ldquo;broad-fronts&rdquo;). In most species this is reasonable clear, but individuals in some may appear on the border. Also, the breadth can change as crabs get larger. There is variation within species, and the breadth of the front changes as crabs get older and larger (<em>e.g.,</em> within broad-front species, the front gradually gets wider as the crab ages, with smaller/younger crabs having narrower fronts than larger/older crabs).	1.png|.	.
2	Carapace color uniformity	1	.	.	.
3	Carapace color	1	Carapace color is a useful, but often complicated character to differentiate species. Some species tend to have very simple, diagnostic color patterns across all individuals; others can vary quite a bit among individuals of the same species. An additional complication is that in some species color can vary with maturity, sexual state, temperature, or even time of day. In particular, males in some species go through a carapace &ldquo;whitening&rdquo; where they have darker colors when they first emerge from burrows but get lighter and lighter as they get active and the heat goes up. All of this leads to a lot of potential variation within certain species, making it hard to simply and precisely describe patterns of field characters. Another complication is that many fiddler crabs tend to be covered with sand or mud which may hide the otherwise diagnostic colors in the field, with some species more susceptible to this than others (based on preferred habitat). When collected, fiddlers often lose their color and specimens which have stored in museums tend to bereft of most, if not all, color.	.	.
4	H-groove color	1	The &ldquo;H-groove&rdquo; refers to a series of grooves on the center of the carapace, generally a bit closer to the back of the crab than the front, which roughly resembles the capital letter H. In most species this groove blends fairly well into the carapace (without close examnation) but in a few these grooves can be strikingly different colored and can serve as diagnostic indicators.	4.jpg|.	.
5	Joint color	1	.	.	.
6	Shear-shaped claw	6	.	.	1
7	Style on major eye	6	.	.	.
8	Eyestalk color	1	.	.	.
9	Claw symmetry	100	.	.	.
10	Carapace breadth	1	.	.	.
11	Claw color uniformity	1	.	.	.
12	Claw color (uniform)	1	.	.	.
13	Major pollex pitting	1	.	.	1
14	Major dactyl color	1	.	.	1
15	Major pollex color	1	.	.	1
16	Major claw outer manus color	1	.	.	1
17	Major claw outer manus tubercles	1	.	.	1
18	Walking leg color	1	.	.	.
19	Tip of dactyl shape	1	.	.	1
20	Anterolateral angle shape	1	.	.	.
21	Anterolateral angle direction	1	.	.	.
22	Claw speckles	1	.	.	.
23	Orbit shape	1	.	.	.
